Bowen Madden  
Dr. Lu  
CS665, Intro to Database Systems  
December 15th, 2025  

## Project 1: Creating a Web App to interact with an SQL Database

### Files:
- `BladeBoutique printed tables.pdf`: The tables printed from DB Browser.
- `BladeBoutique.csproj`: The project file in VS Studio.
- `BladeBoutique.sln`: The solution file in VS Studio.
- `BladeBoutique.sqbpro`: The database model created in DB Browser.
- `Program.cs`: The primary code. If finished according to the "Razor Pages with Entity Framework Core" example, this would contain the main code to run a web app, perform user authentication/signing in to a profile on the web app, and to perform CRUD operations on an SQL database of my ice skating mock business.

Note: an explanation of the mock business and SQL database model, as well as an analysis for Third Normalization Form, have already been submitted in steps 1-3 of the project.

### Steps 4-5 and Result:
Initally, I tried to use my existing version of the "Razor Pages with EF Core" example provided in class (link: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/data/ef-rp/intro?view=aspnetcore-10.0&tabs=visual-studio).

Following their steps with my mock business instead of the example, I never figured out how to view the model of each table I had created, in order to check if it was accurate. I then tried following the example's steps exactly, creating their Contoso University database instead of my mock business, in the hopes that I would understand EF Core better. I was again running into problems trying to display the cshtml files that were generated by the database model, and ultimately the web app itself, so the last thing I tried was looking over their already-completed example to see what a completed project might look like. However, I still do not understand Razor Pages and EF Core well enough to use this as a reference, and I do not know how to run my mock business as a web app. I have created a DB Browser model and Razor Pages model of my mock business's SQL database, but I could not figure out how to combine the two and interact with them for the project.

I did not successfully create a web app. The original plan was that users could sign in, creating a Customer or Employee entry, and use the app's UI to purchase items or skate maintenance jobs. If signed in as an Employee with the "administator" role, users would also be able to update the list of products and services available as well as to edit the list of employees. Only Employees with the "skate tech" role would be able to be selected for Skate Jobs, and only Customers could make purchases. The program would ideally have handled these operations by first running simple if-then statements based on the profile that was currently signed-in, to check which permissions a user had, then using CRUD operations to edit the underlying database (such as by placing new entries in the Orders table or removing a product entry from the Product table). In the long-term, I had also hoped to be able to make certain actions automatic, such as lowering the quantity of items that are placed in Orders to emulate purchases, and removing them from the Products table without needing an Empoyee to manually do so, if their quantity drops to 0.

Ultimately, however, I was uanble to see this project to completion. I do not like how this ended, so when I have time, I will continue to work on it outside of class to improve my understanding of the tools and methods used.